Split architectures in stable/experimental/deprecated (#79)
lab-cosmo/metatensor-models: docs/src/dev-docs/architecture-life-cycle.rst

=============================

.. TODO: Maybe add a flowchart later

Architectures in `metatensor-models` undergo different stages based on their
development/functionality level and maintenance status. We distinguish three distinct
stages: **experimental**, **stable**, and **deprecated**. Typically, an architecture
starts as experimental, advances to stable, and eventually becomes deprecated before
removal if maintenance is no longer feasible.

.. note::
    The development and maintenance of an architecture must be fully undertaken by the
    architecture's authors or maintainers. The core developers of `metatensor-models`
    provide infrastructure and implementation support but are not responsible for the
    architecture's internal functionality or any issues that may arise therein.

Experimental Architectures
---------------------------

New architectures added to the library will initially be classified as experimental.
These architectures are stored in the ``experimental`` subdirectory within the
repository. To qualify as an experimental architecture, certain criteria must be met:

1. Capability to fit at least a single quantity and predict it, verified through CI
   tests.

> 2. Compatibility with JIT compilation using `torch script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Compatibility with JIT compilation using `TorchScript
```

   <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/jit.html>`_.
3. Provision of reasonable default hyperparameters.
4. Minimal code quality, ensured by passing linting tests invoked with ``tox -e lint``.

> 5. A responsive contact person designated as the maintainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. A contact person designated as the maintainer.
```

Reviewer: Here I'm concerned that we might scare people off

6. All external dependencies must be pip-installable. While not required to be on PyPI,
   a public git repository or another public URL with a repository is acceptable.

For detailed instructions on adding a new architecture, refer to
:ref:`adding-new-models`.

Stable Architectures
--------------------

Transitioning from an experimental to a stable model requires additional criteria to be
satisfied:

1. Provision of regression prediction tests with a small (not exported) checkpoint file.

> 2. Comprehensive documentation explaining the model's hyperparameters.

Reviewer: I don't fully agree with this. I would say that the hypers can be explained quickly, but what is needed is a guide on how to tune the hypers for different use cases

Author: I changed this to `2. Comprehensive architecture documentation`. This is better.

Reviewer: Perfect.

3. If an architecture has external dependencies, all must be publicly available on PyPI.
4. Adherence to the standard output infrastructure of `metatensor-models`, including
   logging and model save locations.

Deprecated Architectures
------------------------

> An architecture will be deemed deprecated if it loses its responsive maintainer or if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An architecture will be deemed deprecated if its maintainer becomes irresponsive
```
I think this is clearer
